Chapter 1 - Basics
	OSI Layer:
		Application -> FTP, HTTP, SMTP -> Data
		Presentation -> MIME -> Data
		Session -> ZIP -> Data
		Transport -> TCP/UDP -> Segment
		Network -> IP -> Packet
		Data Link -> ARP -> Frame
		Physical -> USB standards -> Bit

	TCP/IP Model:
		Application
		Transport ->Internet
	Network Access

	3 - TCP Way Handshake:
		SYN, SYN/ACK, ACK 

	Basic Vulns:
		Misconfiguration
		Default Installs
		Buffer Overfolows
		Missing Patches
		Design Flaws
		OS Flaws
		Application FlawsOpen Services
		Default Passwords

	Threat Modeling:
		1. Identify Security Objectives
		2. Application Overview
		3. Decompose Application
		4. Identify Threats
	5. Identify Vulns

	EISA - Enterprise Information Sec Archetecture - how orgs. info systems are built/work

	Risk Management Phases:
		Identification
		Assessment
		Treatment
		Tracking
		Review

	ALE = SLE x ARO

	CIA Triad:
		Confidentiality, Integrity, Availability

	Definition: Bit Flip is an integrity attack, bits are manipulated in the cipher to create a predictable outcome in the plan text when decrypted

	TOE - Target of Eval, what is being tested
	ST - Sec Target - Documentation 
	PP - Protection Profile - Sec Requirements for the item to be tested

	Policy types:
		Access Control Policy - Rules in place to controls access
		Info Sec Policy - Indicates what company systems may be used for
		Info protection Policy - sensitivity levels
		Password Policy
		Email Policy
		Info Audit Policy - Framework for auditing within org, when, where, how, why

	Standards - Mandatory
	Baselines - minimum security levels
	Guidelines - Flexible
	Procedures - Step by Step instructions for carrying out tasks

	Hacking Phases:
		Recon
		Scanning and Enumeration
		Gaining Access, includes escalation of priv
		Maintaining Access
		Covering Tracks

	Tiger Team - Group of employees working together on a common problem or goal

	Standards:
		PCI-DSS - Standards for handling credit cards
		COBIT - framework created by ISACA for information technology management and IT governance
		ISO/IEC 27001:2013 - req for establishing, implementing, maintaining and continually improving an information security management in an organization

Chapter 2 - Info Gathering

	4 focuses for footprinting:
		1. Know the security posture
		2. Reduce focus area
		3. Identify vulns
		4. draw network map

	Active footprinting - social engineering
	Passive footprinting - dumpster diving

	Tools:
		-Alerting like Google, Yahoo, etc. have an alerting systems
		-Google Hacking DB 
			Examples:
				filetype: type
				Index of/string
				info:string
		Website/Email footprinting tools:
			HTTrack
			Black Widow
			WebRipper
			Website Watcher (inline with alerting tools)
			Wayback machine
			whois
			tracert (windows) / traceroute (linux)
			OSRFramework

	DNS
		An authoritative name server is a name server that gives answers in response to questions asked about names in a zone.
		
		nslookup commands:
			nslookup <IP address> 
			set type=any
			ls -d domainname.com

	DNS footprinting:
		SRV - Services
		SOA - Start of Auth - Primary name server for the zone, contains hostname and basic properties
		PTR - Pointer - Maps IP to hostname
		NS - Name Server 
		MX - Mail Exchange - Email servers
		CNAME - Canonical Name - Domain name alias like running FTP ans web service 
		A - Address 

Chapter 3 - Scanning and Enumeration

	UDP, connectionless communication (TFTP, DNS)
	TCP, connection communication 
		Flags
			SYN
			ACK
			RST
			PSH
			URG

	Packet crafting tools:
		Netscan, WAN killer, Ostinato, Colasoft

	Port Cheat Sheet:
		20-21 - FTP
		22 - SSH
		23 - Telnet
		25 - SMTP
		53 - DNS
		67 - DHCP
		69 - TFTP
		80 - HTTP
		110 - POP3
		135 - RPC
		137-139 - NetBIOS
		143 - IMAP
		161-162 - SNMP
		389 - LDAP
		443 - HTTPS
		445 - SMB

	Tools for ports:
		CurrPorts
		netstat
			netstat -an (displays all connections and status
			netstat -b (exe tied to open port)

	Port States:
		Listening
		Established 
		CLOSE_WAIT - remote side has closed the connection
		TIME_WAIT - Your side has closed the connection

	IPv4, 3 address types - unicase, multicast and broadcast
		IP addresses 32 bits, each set to 1 or 0 separated into 4 octets 
		2 sections, network identifier and host
			Broadcast has 2 main types - Limited which are delivered to every system inside the domain, routers ignore all limited broadcasts. 
			Directed are sent to all devices on subnet

	A subnet mask is any binary pattern that is matched against any IP address to determine which bits belong to the network 
	
	XOR compares two binary inputs and creates an output, matching numbers = 0 and if they do not a 1 is generated 

	Routed protocol is one being packaged up and moved around
	Routing protocol decides the best way to get to the destination

	Network scanning methodology:
		1. Check for live systems 
		2. Check for open ports
		3. Scan beyond IDS
		4. Banner grabbing
		5. Scan for Vulns
		6. Network Diagrams
		7. Prepare Proxies

	ICMP
		0: Echo reply, waiting for a type 8
		3: Destination unreachable, 0 ntwork, 1 host, 13 administratively prohibited (poorly configured firewall)
		4: Source Quench
		5: Redirect, 0 redirect datagram for network, 1 redirect datagram for host
		8: Echo Request, requesting echo reply
		11: Time exceeed, TTL expired

	ICMP tools:
		Nmap, Angry IP, Solar Winds
		Nmap commands for ICMP scans (also called ping scan)
			-sn -pe is a ping sweep (no scan option but does host discovery)
			-sn ping scan 	
	
	Ping of Death: 
		Use of fragmented ICMP packets and reassembly to use a buffer overflow to crash the OS

	Port scan types:
		1. Full Connect, TCP connect, Full open scan - Runs through the full 3 way handshake with a RST at the end
		2. Stealth, half open scan, "SYN" scan - Only SYN packets are sent (No full 3 way)
		3. Inverse TCP flag, "Fin" scan - Uses Fin, Urg, PSH and if the ports are open there will be no response, if closed RST/ACK
		4. ACK flag probe, attacker sends an Ack flag and looks at the headerthe TTL if TTL is less than 64 the port is open. 
		In the Window version if the window size on the RST packet has anything other than 0 then the port is open 
		*This scan can be used to check filtering on the remote end, if the ACK is sent and no response there is a stateful firewall. 
		5. Idle, Used spoofed IP zombie PC and monitors IPID

	Nmap switches:
		-A, Enables OS detection and Version detection, Script scanning and Traceroute (no ping scanning)
		-sA, ACK Scan
		-sF, FIN scan
		-sI, Idle Scan
		-sL, DNS scan (List scan)
		-sN, NULL scan
		-sO, protocol scan
		-sR, RPC scan
		-sS, SYN scan
		-sT, TCP connect scan
		-sW, Window scan
		-sX, XMAS scan (Not a stealthy scan)
		-PI, ICMP scan
		-P0, No ping
		-T0, slowest
		-T1, Slowest
		-T2, Normal speed
		-T3 Parrallel, normal speed
		-T4 Fast scan
		(slower best for hiding)

	Hping3
		-1, ICMP (Windows does not respond to echo requests that are sent to a network) 
		-2, UDP
		-8, Scan and sets ports to be scanned
		-9, lisiten mode
		--flood, DoS
		-F, sets Fin
		-S, sets SYN/ACK
		-R, RST
		-P, PSH
		-A, ACK
		-U, URG
		-X, XMAS
		
	Other Tools
		Dmitry - Command line open source tool for Linux 

	Proxying, proxy chains for obfuscation
		TOR, Onion routing

	Linux Enumeration:
		finger (user and host machine info)
		rpcinfo/rpcclient (provide info on Remote Procedure Calls in the enviornment)
		showmount (info on shared directories on the machine)

	Windows security ID (SIDS) and Resource ID (RIDS)
	C:\Windows\System32\Config\SAM

	Banner grabbing:
		sends unsolicited request to open port and investigates response 
			Active: sending specially crafted packets
			Passive: watching traffic, reading messages, sniffing network
	Telnet/netcat can perform banner grabbing
		telnet <IP> 80
		nc -v -n <IP> 80
		
		nc 10.11.12.13 12345 - command will initate outbound connection on destination port 12345
		
			netcat:
				-e , launches program after connection is established
				-L, listen for inbound connections
				-t, telnet communication
	NetBIOS
	TCP/IP network segment

	Tools:
	SuperScan
	Hyena
	nbtstat
		-an displays all connections and listening ports
		-n, local table
		-A <IP>,remote systems
		-c, cache
			Codes:
			<1B> Domain master browser
			<1C> Domain Controller
			<1D> master browser for subnet
			<00> Hostname, domain name
			<03> service running<20> server service running
	NetBIOS name resolution does not work on IPv6

	SNMP Enumeration:
		MIB, Management Info Base, holds info arranged into obj IDs (OIDS)

	Protocol encryption:
		NTPv3 and SMTPv3

	SMTP commands using telnet:
		VRFY, validates user
		EXPN, Gives delivery address, mailing list, alias
		RCPT TO, defines recipients

Chapter 4 - Sniffing and Evasion

	Linux and Windows, NIC must be in promiscuous mode
	Windows WinCap/Linux linpcap

	Switches split collision domains

	Law enforcement calls it "wire tapping"
	Laws:
		FITARA - Framework for how US buys technology (2015 update)
		FISMA - Implementation of security policies 
		800-53 - Implementation of security and privacy controls for federal systems 
		GLBA - protects confidentiality and integrity of personal information held by financial institutions
		

	Protocols suseptible to sniffing
		FTP
		TFTP
		NNTP
		IMAP
		POP3
		HTTP
		SMTP

	ARP:
		Datalink layer, resolves IP address to MAC , ARP is a broadcast protocol
		retains cache on machine
		arp -a will display cachearp -d deletes item
		Gratuitous ARP, packet that updates the arp cache to change MAC address to alter traffic flow
		ARP poisioning, ARP spoofing, gratuitous ARP - Process of changing an ARP cache to inject faulty info
		
	IPv6:
		128 bit address, eight groups of 4 hexadecimal digits separated by colons 
		loop back address is 0:0001 or ::1
			unicast, only one host
			multicast, multiple hosts can recieve
			anycast, large group can receive with nearest host opening
				link local scope, hosts on same subnet - fe80::/10 block reserved
				site local, same org - FEC0::/10
				global, all
		traditional scanning is harder, but getting a machine inside can use the "all hosts" link local address
		
	PRISM (Planning Tool for Resource Integration, Synch and Mgmt) - NSA wiretapping foriegn Internet traffic

	Passive sniffing - watching packets (no interference)
		only works if NIC is in same collision domain as targets 
			Hubs preferable as they extend the collision domain
			Misconfigured NIC can provide passive traffic
				
	Active Sniffing
		Packet Injection tool/manipulation
		Active usually indicates Collision domain are apart of is segmented from target (usually on a switch)
			Need to get the switch to close the port you are connect to every time it closes the port we want to sniff use a Span Port
				Span Port/Port mirroring - switch altered to send a copy of frames from one port to another (Cisco configured not to do this)
				
	Tools
	Wireshark
	example filters: 
		Show only SMTP (port 25) and ICMP traffic:
		tcp.port eq 25 or icmp
			== equal to
			&& display if both conditions are true
			or display either or
				can also filter on decimal numbering:
					FIN = 1
					SYN = 2
					RST = 4
					PSH = 8
					ACK = 16
					SYN+ACK = 18
					URG = 32
	tcpdump (linux)
		commands:
		-i (listening mode)
		-w (specifies file)
		
	Ettercap
	Etherpeek
	Snort

	DHCP - Contains pool of associated IP addresses and tracks them
		DHCPDiscover, system looking for server
		DHCPOffer, server sends response
		DHCPrequest, system requests IP
		DHCPPack, provides IP

	Techniques
	Mac Flooding
		Content address table (CAM) if its empty or full, everything is sent to all ports
		Send a lot of MAC addresses to the CAM table that it cant keep up and turns into a hub
		ECC exam may use "switch port stealing" similar idea to MAC flooding but only applies to specific port(s) causing a race condition
	ARP poisioning, ARP spoofing, gratuitous ARP
		Process of changing an ARP cache to inject faulty info
	DHCP starvation
		Attacker send continuous requests DHCP requests to server on the subnet. 
		This results in IP running out quickly. (Like a DoS, but may be in sniffing section of ECC) 
			Rouge DCHP Server, attacker sets up server and hands out IP addresses (may redirect communication sessions)
	Spoofing
		IP, MAC, DNS
		MAC, Change MAC address to the PC you want to sniff traffic from. Can be changed from NIC properties,
		the switch will have 2 entries with the same address in the CAM table. If port security is not on, the latest entry will get the traffic.
		
	Evasion:
		IDS
			False negative, IDS reports that there is nothing wrong when there is (Worse than FP)
			False positive, 
		-Sits on the network permimiter (NIDS sit outside or inside the firewall)
			(Does not sit inline with network traffic)
		-Go slow to avoid IDS detections
		-Fragmentation, put payloads into packets that IDS will ignore and reassemble later 
		-Unicode characters may confuse scanners

		Note: network tap, allows you to see traffic passing by

	Firewall:
		-Placed at the edge of a network with on port facing outward and atleast one inward and another facing the DMZ 
		-implicit deny - any rule not written will be automatically denied
		-HTTP tunneling, trying to bypass a firewall by masking packets by wrapping them in an HTTP shell
		-Most use NAT at the border 
			Basic NAT, 1 to 1 mapping where each internal IP is mapped to a unique public address
			NAT overload or port address translation, uses port numbers unique to each conversation to allow many internal addresses to use one external
		-Firewall types:
			Packet-filtering (older), Based on ACL, incapable of inspecting packets payload
			Stateful Inspection, "stateful multilayer inspection" , Can track status of connection/conversation, monitors payload
			Circuit level gateway, works at the session layer, and allows or prevents data streams (not each packet) (Layer 2)
			Application Level, filters like a proxy allowing certain applications in and out based on ACL/rule set

			Ways to find a firewall from the outside:
				ICMP, type 3 Code 13 (traffic is being filtered by firewall)
				ICMP type 3 Code 3 will indicate the client has the port closed
				Tool: firewall informer 
				traceroute
			Ways to get past firewall:
				Identify ports, "fire walking" (nmap can do this)
				compromised machine on inside
				Packet crafting	tools
					PackETH (linux)
					Packet Gen
					Netscan
	-Honeypots:
		2 types:
		1. High interction, simulates all services and designed to be hacked (Honeynets)
		2. low-interaction, limited and not to be completely hacked (Specter, Honeyd, KFSensor)
	-Nessus can discover honeynets
	-Placed inside DMZ (Webserver can also reside inside DMZ)

	Tools:
		libwhisker, can be used for IDS evasion
		Snort (IDS), open source, sniffer, traffic logging, protocol analyzing, detects buffer overflows, port scans, OS fingerprinting
			3 different modes: 
			1. Sniffer mode 
			2. Packet logger mode, saves packets for review later in time
			3. NIDS
				Order that snort follows rules
					Pass, Drop, Alert, Log
		The config file resides in /etc/snort (linux), c:\snort\etc (windows)
			Contains launch and rule information
			Sample rules for exam:
				alert tcp !$HOME_NET any -> $HOME_NET 23 (msg: "Telnet attempt..need admin access ; content: admin)
				(alert if any outside address using any source port is attempting to connect on 23)
			
Chapter 5 - Attacking a System

	Windows stores hashed passwords in SAM file 

	NTDS.DIT file contains entire active directory pws

	Windows default authentication protocol method is Kerberos 
		Uses symmetric and Asymmetric to pass keys across a netork
			Uses KDC - Key Dist Center
				AS - Auth Service
				TGS - Ticket Granting Service
			TGT - Ticket granting ticket
				Order: 
				1. Client asks KDC comprised of AS and TGS for a ticket
				2. Server responds with a secret key. Hashed copy kept in AD on server (this step is known as TGT)
				3. Client decrypts message and allowed to log in

			Port Security
				Allowa traffic from a MAC to pass through to its port destination
				
			Windows Registry
				collection of settings and configurations that make the system run
				OS components, applications running, drivers, SAM and UI
					Keys and Values:	
						Key - Location Pointer
						Value - Defines the settings
							Root Level Keys:
								1. HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE (HKLM) - Hardware (Processor, etc) information
								2. HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT (HKCR) - File associations & Obj linking and embedding classes
								3. HKEY_CURRENT_USER (HKCU) - Contains profile for the use currently logged in
								4. HKEY_USERS (HKU) Contains user configuration info for active users
								5. HKEY_CURRENT_CONFIG (HKCC) - Pointer to HKLM to make editing profiles easier
				
	Microsoft Management Concole - MMC

	Linux Security:

	Important Folders:
		/bin - Holds basic linux commands (similar to Windows32 folder)
		/dev - Contains pointer locations
		/etc - Administration files and passwords
		/mnt - Locations that have been mounted
		/sbin - System binaries, includes daemons
	
	Important commands:
		cat - Displays contents of file
		cp - Copy
		ifconfig - network configuration
		rm - removes files
		su - performs functions of another user
		
	Permissions:
		4 = Read
		2 = Write
		1 = Execute 
			Example: chmod 464 file 1 (this is read, read/write and read -- add the numbers to get 6)
			'777' is all permissions to all groups
		
	ShadowFile is only accessible by root user and contains the password file (encrypted). This is also located in /etc (hashed)

	Tools:
		John the Ripper works well on linux shadow files 

	System Hacking GOALS according to ECC
		1. Gaining Access
		2. Escalating Privledges
		3. Exe Applications
		4. Hiding Files
		5. Covering Tracks
	
	Clearing Tracks
		-Apphend . in linux to hide files
		-Clearing Logs using meterpreter
			Launch a meterpreter shell in metasploit 
			type clearev

	Biometrics
		FRR - False Reject Rate
		FAR - False Acceptance Rate 
			Both are used to generate the CER - Crossover Error Rate (Lower is better)
		Active Biometrics, touching
		Passive Biometrics, no touch 
			Note: Retina (laser) scan is active, Iris scan (picture) is passive 
		Biometric passport - contains your personal biometric information. This is single factor because its just a token. 
	
	Password Attacks:
		1. Non-electronic
		2. Active Online - Dictionary, brute force, hash injections, phishing , trojan , spyware, keyloggers,
			These attacks take longer than passive
			LLMNR/NBT-NS (Link Local Multicast Name Res/ NETBIOS) is an active attack that can redirect DNS traffic to attacker to capture hashes for brute forcing.
				LLMNR UDP port 5535 / NBT-NS UDP port 137
		3. Passive Online - Sniffing for passwords
		4. Offline - Steals copy of password file (SAM) - Use dictionary attacks, brute forcing on the file (not online)
		5. Rule Based Attack - Dictionary , Birthday, with more information about the user 
	
	Windows PW tools:
		CHNTPW
		Stellst Pheonix
		Windows Recovery Ultimate
		ISeePassword
		Windows Password Recovery Tool'Passware Kit
		PCUnlocker

	Other PW tools:
		Cain and Abel
			ARP poisioning mode with Cain
			Abel can launch system shell on remote PC
			Can be used to record and extract void conversations
		Ettercap
		THCHydra
		Metaspolit , also used for privledge escalation

	Privledge Escalation:
		Vertical Escalation - Moving Up, ie standard user to admin
		Horizontal Escalation - Jumping to another account with similar privledges
	
	After Priv Escalation, next step is to execute applications (keyloggers, spyware, backdoors, etc)
	After Executing applications, next step is to cover tracks
	-Using Windows Alternate Data Stream (ADS) / NTFS , which is used to hide a file behind another file 
		example: c:\type c:\badfile.exe > c:\readme.text:badfile.exe
		LNS and Sfind will find these ADS issues
		
	-Steganography/Semagram will also hide information
	
	-DLL Hijacking - May be able to replace libraries in same app directory to escalate privledges
	
	-Manipulate/clear/corrupt logs
	-default log location: %systemroot%\system32\config
	
	-Rootkits - Software placed on a system used to obscure system compromise 
		Notable Rootkits:
			1. horsepill, linux kernel rootkit inside of initrd
			2. grayfish, Windows rootkit that injects code into the boot record
			3. Sirefef
				Types of Rootkits: 
					1. Hypervisor - Modify bootkit of host system to load VM
					2. Hardware (Firmware) - Hide in hardware or firmware
					3. Bootloader - Replace bootloader
					4. Application - Replace application with trojan binaries
					5. Kernel - Attack boot sectors and kernel level of the OS, replacing kernel
					6. Library - Use system level calls to hide 
					
			Ring Levels:
				Ring 0 - Kernel
				Ring 1 - Drivers 
				Ring 2 - Libraries
				Ring 3 - Applications
			
			ECC's steps for detecting rootkits
				1. Run dir /s /b /ah and dir /s /b /a-h command in infected folder 
				2. Boot clean version and run same commands 
				3. Use windif to see results

	Other Notes:
		Linux '&' commands will run things in the background and stop when the user logs out
		LM = LAN Manager
			old authentication
			uses DES 

	Hiding files:
		start readme:badfile.exe
		
Chapter 6 - Application Security

	OWASP Top 10
		1. Injection
		2. Broken Auth
		3. Sensitive Data Exposure
		4. XXE - Exploitation of vulnerable XML engines
		5. Broken Access Control
		6. Misconfiguration
		7. XSS
		8. Insecure Deserialization
		9. Compnents with known Vulnerabilities
		10. Insufficient Logging
		
	DNS Records:
		A - Translate host name to IP address
		CNAME - Map hostname to additional hostname
		MX - Mail Exchange
		PTR - Reverse DNS Lookup info
	
	Attack Methodology
		1. Information Gathering
		2. Web Server Footprinting
			- Use nmap
			Commands:
				1. nmap --script http-trace -p80 localhost
				2. nmap --script http-google-email <host>
				3. nmap --script hostmap-* <host> 
				4. nmap --script http-enum -p80 <host>
				5. nmap -p80 --script http-robots.txt <host>
				
	3. Website Mirroring
	4. Vulnerability Scanning
	5. Session Hijacking
	6. Web Server Password Cracking
	
	Attacks:
		Heartbleed:
			OpenSSL Vulnerability that obtains 64kb of data obtained from a webserver
		
		POODLE:
			MiTM attack, downgrade from TLS to SSL 3.0
			
		Tools:
			RUDY - R U Dead Yet, starves a webserver by keeping sessions open as long as possible
			THOR - APT Scanner
		
		Flags cookies:
			httponly: mitigates some XSS attacks
			
		Web Servers	
			1. Front End Server
			2. Back End Server
			3. Database
				Note: LSAPI (Internet Services Application Programmining Interface) filters should be removed to increase security
			
		Popular Servers
			Apache
				Configuration consists of as apart of a module with configuration files
					http.conf for server status 
					httpd.conf controls aspects including who can view the server status page
					php.ini contains verbose error messagin settings
			NginX (Engine X)
			IIS
				Configuration consists of running LOCAL_SYSTEM and spawns shells
		
		HTTP Methods
			GET
				Requests data from a resource (Gets the data)
				Note: Dont use this method to send data
			HEAD
				Identical to the GET method except the server does not return a message body in the response
			POST
				Orgin server accept the entity enclosed in the request as a new subordinate as the resource identified in the URI. 
				The function is determined by the server and depended of the request URI
				Best method to submit data 
			PUT
				The enclosed entitiy should be considered a modified version of the one residing on the server 
			DELETE
				Delete resource requested by the request URI
			TRACE
				Application layer loopback of request message, final recipient will receive 200 OK
			CONNECT
				Reservers for proxy that can dynamically switch to being a tunnel (SSL)
				
		Responses
			1XX - Info
			2XX - OK
			3XX - Redirection
			4XX - Client Error
			5XX - Server Error
		
		Attacks
			DNS amplification
				Manipulation of recursive DNS to cause a DoS
			Directory Transversal
				An attempt to access internal server files (restricted files) (dot dot slashes are intented to take the shell back to root)
				IDS can look at this
				dot dot slash is also a variant of unicode or unvalidated input attack
			Shellshock/Bashdoor
				Manipulation of websites using bash commands. Shellshock causes bash to unitentionally execute commands 
			XSS
				Add scripts to URL 
				If client side has access to document.cookie, can send XSS attack to remote host
			CSRF
				Tricks victim to victims into submitting a malicious request 
			Session Fixation 
				Similar to CSRF, Attacker logs into legit site and pulls session ID, sends email to victim with attackers session ID
			HTTP response splitting
				Works by adding response data to input field on the sever then it splits the response in a couple directions
			Pharming Attack:
				DNS Poisioning Attack			
			Injection attacks:
				SQL Injection	
					Use single quote '
					In Band - Attacker using same communication channel
					Out of Band - Different communication channel
					Blind - Error messages not visible to attacker but site is suseptible
						Tools for SQL Infection
							Absinthe, Pangolin, Havij
				CSPP (Connection String Parameter pollution)
					Takes advantages of web applications that talk to databases by using ; 
				File Injection
					Uses a pointer in a web form input to an exploit hosted on a remote site 
				Command Injection
					Where the attackker injects commands into the form fields instea of expected entry
				Shell Injection 
					Attacker attempts to gain access using Java or other functions 
				LDAP 
					Expolits unvalidated web input that passes LDAP queries
					&, )(&) symbol ends a LDAP query
		
		SOAP
			Uses XML to communicate 
			Compatible with HTTP and SMTP 
			Messages are one way
			
		Metaspoit information
			Framework accepts custome plugins, interfaces, security tools, webservers, and modules
			Includes:
				Exploits
				Payloads - Uses arbitary code
				Auxiliary - Used for one off actions (like a scan)
				NOPS - Buffer overflow type operations
				REX - Library used for most tasks
				
		Canary Words
			Known values placed between the buffer and control data, if buffer overflow occurs the canary words are modified first
			
		BBProxy
			Blackberry attack tool, can be used for Blackjacking
		
Wireless Networking - CH 7

	Standards
		802.11a - 54mbps, 5 GHz, OFDM
		802.11b - 11mbps, 2.4 GHz, DSSS
		802.11d - Variation of a + b standards
		802.11g - 54mbps, 2.4 GHz, OFDM and DSSS
		802.11i - WPA/WPA2
		802.11n - 100+mbps, 2.4-5 GHz, OFDM
		802.11ac - 1000mbps, 5GHz, QAM
	Other notable
		802.15.1 - Bluetooth
			Note: Bluetooth uses weak encryption techniques
				Attacks:
					Bluesmack: Denies access to bluetooth devices
		802.15.4 - Zigbee, low power, low data rate
		802.16 - WiMax, broadband wireless metropolitian area networks
		
	Modulation - Practice of manipulating properties of a wave form to encode the data
	
	OFDM - Wavelengths being divided into a bunch of frequency bands that do not overlap
	DSSS - Combines waveforms into a single one
	
	Modes:
		Infastructure mode - this mode is what most networks use
		Ad Hoc - Connect each system to one another
		
	BSSID: Basic Service Set ID, MAC address of wireless AP that is the center of the BSS
	
	Tools
		Kismet - Can detect and sniff wireless traffic
		Netstumbler - Windows tool to detect wireless traffic 
	
	Antennas:
		Omnidirectional, 360 degrees (most APS)
		Dipole, have two signal towers
		Directional, points in specific direction
			Yagi, type of directional antenna 
			Parabolic grid, look like satelite dishs, directional antennas
			
	Authentication:
		Wireless
			Open System Authentication, Client send 802.11 frame with SSID to AP 
			Shared Key Authentication, Challenge/Request Scenario
			Centralized Authentication, AAA like RADIUS
			
	War Chalking - Drawing symbols on walls to indicate wireless availability
		)( - open network
		Key - locked
		$ - Pay for access
		W - WEP enabled
		
	Wireless Encryption
		WEP - Uses RC4 cipher, Initialization Vectors (IV) and XOR operation, WEP is unsecured and no longer used much
			3 encryption options: 
				1. 64 bit version uses 40 bit key
				2. 128 version uses 104 bit key
				3. 256 version uses 232 bit key
		WPA
			Uses RC4 + Temporal Key Integrity Protocol (TKIP), 129 bit key and MAC address
				Temporal = Temporary, every 10000 packets and the keys are transferred back and forth using EAP
		WPA2
			Same as WPA but designed with the Govt and enterprise in mind
				EAP and RADIUS can be tied together
				Uses AES and FIPS 140-2 compliance
				Uses Authentication Code Protocol (CCMP) - Similar to hashes to prove integrity
		
		Wireless Threat Categories
			1. Access Control Attacks
			2. Integrity Attacks
			3. Confidentiality Attacks
			4. Availability Attacks
			5. Authentication Attacks
			
		Attacks
			"War" attacker moves around trying to find open WiFi networks to connect to
				Can use tool WIFIExplorer, WiFIFoFum and OpenSignalMaps. AirPCap Dongle
				WIGLE tool - Can look into someones smartphone
				
Cryptography Notes:
		Asymmetric Algorithms (2 keys, Public Key Crypto, PKI)
			RSA
				Suseptible to chosen cipertext attack - decryption of cipertext to discover the key
			D-H
			PGP
			ECC
			Digital Signatures
	
		Symmetric Algorithms (Aka Same key, 1 Key)
			Faster, great for bulk encryption
				AES (Block)
				DES/3DES
				RC4 (Stream)
				Blowfish
		
		Stream ciphers are faster than block ciphers
		Known Plaintext attack, the attacker has both the plaintext and ciphertext
					
		Steps to encrypt email (asymmetric, PKI)
			1. Create a hash of message body
			2. Encrypt hash using your private key
			3. Encypt the message with receipients public key
			
		Key Escrow:
			Give a trusted 3rd party the ability to access confidential data 
			

	
		
			
			
				
		
					
					
				
			
			
	
	
	



		
				
			
	

	






	


		
	
	
	
		
	


	
		
		




	
















